\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename sync-journals-bib.info
@settitle Sync Journals Bib User Manual
@documentencoding UTF-8
@documentlanguage en
@c %**end of header

@copying
Copyright @copyright{} 2026 Blaine Mooers.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute, and modify this manual
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* Sync Journals Bib: (sync-journals-bib). Reconcile BibTeX journal names with org-ref and CASSI.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title Sync Journals Bib
@subtitle Reconcile BibTeX journal names with org-ref and CASSI
@author Blaine Mooers
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Sync Journals Bib

This manual documents @code{sync-journals-bib}, an Emacs Lisp package
that reconciles the journal field values of a master BibTeX file with
the abbreviation table used by @code{org-ref} and the official
abbreviation table on the CASSI website.

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* Installation::
* Configuration::
* Usage::
* Commands::
* Functions::
* Customization::
* Testing::
* License::
* Index::
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@code{sync-journals-bib} walks a master BibTeX file, gathers the
unique journal names that appear in @code{journal} or
@code{journaltitle} fields, and compares them against the second slot
of every triple in @code{org-ref-bibtex-journal-abbreviations}. For
each journal that is missing from that table the package emits a
ready-to-paste @code{add-to-list} form. When network access is
available the package also fetches a CASSI search result page and
fills the third slot with the official Chemical Abstracts Service
abbreviation.


@node Installation
@chapter Installation

@section Manual install

Clone the repository and add it to your @code{load-path}.

@example
git clone https://github.com/MooersLab/sync-journals-bib.git
@end example

Then, in your init file, write the following.

@lisp
(add-to-list 'load-path "~/path/to/sync-journals-bib")
(require 'sync-journals-bib)
@end lisp

@section use-package

@lisp
(use-package sync-journals-bib
  :load-path "~/path/to/sync-journals-bib"
  :commands (sync-journals-bib-sync sync-journals-bib-list-missing))
@end lisp


@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration

The package exposes four customizable variables.

@vtable @code
@item sync-journals-bib-file
Path to the master BibTeX file. The default is
@file{~/Documents/global.bib}.

@item sync-journals-bib-cassi-url
URL of a CASSI search result page. The default points at the URL
supplied by the package author.

@item sync-journals-bib-buffer-name
Name of the output buffer. The default is @samp{*sync-journals-bib*}.

@item sync-journals-bib-fetch-timeout
Number of seconds to wait for the CASSI page to download. The default
is 30.
@end vtable


@node Usage
@chapter Usage

To run the synchronization, call the main command.

@example
M-x sync-journals-bib-sync
@end example

A buffer opens with one @code{add-to-list} form per missing journal.
Copy the forms into your init file, evaluate them, and you are done.

With a prefix argument the command skips the CASSI lookup. This is
useful when working offline.

@example
C-u M-x sync-journals-bib-sync
@end example


@node Commands
@chapter Commands

@deffn Command sync-journals-bib-sync &optional skip-cassi
Generate @code{add-to-list} forms for journals missing from
@code{org-ref-bibtex-journal-abbreviations}. When SKIP-CASSI is
non-nil, the network lookup is skipped.
@end deffn

@deffn Command sync-journals-bib-list-missing
Return the list of journal names found in
@code{sync-journals-bib-file} but absent from
@code{org-ref-bibtex-journal-abbreviations}. Useful from a hook or a
batch script.
@end deffn


@node Functions
@chapter Functions

The internal helpers are documented for completeness. They are not
part of the public API and may change without notice.

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--journals-in-file bibfile
Return a sorted list of unique journal names found in BIBFILE.
@end deffn

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--normalize s
Normalize string S for case-insensitive comparison.
@end deffn

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--known-journals
Return the list of full journal names known to org-ref.
@end deffn

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--missing-journals &optional bibfile
Return journal names in BIBFILE that are absent from org-ref.
@end deffn

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--build-snippet full-name &optional cassi-abbrev key
Return a formatted @code{add-to-list} form.
@end deffn

@deffn Function sync-journals-bib--parse-cassi-html html
Return an alist of (FULL-TITLE . CAS-ABBREV) pulled from HTML.
@end deffn


@node Customization
@chapter Customization

Open the customization group with @kbd{M-x customize-group RET
sync-journals-bib RET}. Edit any of the four variables described in
@ref{Configuration}.


@node Testing
@chapter Testing

The package ships with an ERT test suite. From the source directory,
run the following.

@example
make test
@end example

The Makefile launches Emacs in batch mode, loads the library and the
test file, and runs every @code{ert-deftest}.


@node License
@chapter License

This program is free software released under the GNU General Public
License, version 3 or later. See the file @file{COPYING} for details.


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye
